Alright, real quick one is the ability
to re-order your items,
so if there was not enough ways
to move where your items go in CSS grid,
there's also an order property which will allow us
to show up where we want them.
So, let's open up re-order grid, and order start,
and we got an example coming up
where we're gonna have a logo and a navigation
and we want to re-order it at a media query,
but let's do a quick little example
of what this would look like.
So, here I'm going to make a quick little grid,
so, say, grid, template, columns, and we'll repeat.
Let's do a ten grid one, one F-R.
Good, and then, I want the content
to be grid column one, negative one
because I want it to go all the way across.
Good, and then the logo,
I want it to span two, so grid column to span two
and the nav, I want to grid column, span eight.
Good, I have my logo and I have my nav,
but what if I wanted to put the nav before the logo
or any other order that I would want.
And, that sometimes would happen at a media query
as soon as you get at a smaller point
and this is an example we're gonna have,
I wanna put the nav above the logo.
So, how would that work?
Well, you can give your items an order property.
So, if I go to my logo and give it an order of one,
that actually puts it at the end,
and why does that happen?
Because the default order of everything is zero
and then if you give something a one
it actually moves it to the end,
so you need to put an order property
on the rest of our items here.
So, logo would be two,
nav order will be one,
and then, the content order is going to be three.
And, there we go, we have it all.
What I should mention before we get into any of this
because obviously it's very simple in how it works
is that it will goof up your select
as well as your accessibility.
So, even though the source order,
logo, nav, content,
and then it goes nav, logo, content,
so, they are coming in different orders,
it will both goof up the order
at which your screen reader will read it back to you.
So, don't do this for things that have,
in this case, the nav and the logo, it doesn't matter
which order they come into a screen reader,
but for, let's say you had some content,
don't re-arrange like a paragraph tag
into a different order just with CSS
because it's not gonna get read back to everyone that way.
So, and also, if I were try to select this text,
say select nav
and then as soon as I get the logo, it unselects it.
But, if I were to select it like backwards,
it still doesn't work.
So, those are two gotchas with the order property.
Make sure that you know how that works.
So, that's my very simple example as to how order will work,
but we'll go into some more advanced examples
or very simple examples as we get into real world.